The Joe Rogan experience and what blows my mind is that
science is the truth to me.
Good science DNA is the truth.
So here we had a case and this was one where I said, well,
I want to be convinced that he's innocent.
So it's the case of this guy named Clemente, Gary. And if I tell you this story,
you'll say, you gotta be making this up.
It can't be true because the story from start to finish is,
is just mind-bending. He's a Honduran immigrant.
He is escaping Ms. 13 in Honduras and he wins
like what? It was like the Honduran version of the voice, right?
American.
Idol, like American idol, Honduran, idol.
Honduran idol, when he's young, when he's in grade school.
So the gang leaves him alone.
Cause he's kind of a novelty and he's nicknamed shorty because he's only four
foot 11 as a grown person.
He's in his early twenties and the violence is getting so bad.
He's I gotta get the outta here. They kill his front friend.
They kill his best friend and dump them in the street in front of him.
So he flees to America and he does the whole circuitous route through
Mexico. Or he gets tries to get a Mexican accent.
He finds a coyote and he swims across the Rio Grande,
almost drowns. Um, and then he's taken,
um, I mean that whole story I could spend a half hour on.
He's putting in an escape hatch of a car and driven around the country till
he finally lands in Sanford, Florida. Right? And Sanford,
Florida is where the Trayvon Martin trial happened.
And I end up in front of the same judge that presided originally over the
Trayvon Martin trial. So Clemente is accused. He gets to Sanford,
Florida on a Saturday,
he's begins working at a golf course on a Monday climbing trees and cutting down
branches. One of the golf members says,
I like this kid's work ethic. You want to come work at my restaurant.
And he goes and begins working at the restaurant.
He lives in a trailer in the back of a trailer.
No on vagabond way.
And he's got neighbors who are three generations of poor white trash.
It's a grandmother, a mother and a daughter. And he's like a novelty.
They call them little Mexico. He's not even from Mexico. He can't speak English.
And he used to go and do Coke with daughter smoke, weed drink.
And it was like a outdoor dorm. You know,
they would go to his trailer. He would go to hers.
That was like, their doors were always unlocked.
He's out one day partying with his friends. He does Coke.
He comes home and it's like five in the morning.
And he wants a beer because he wants to try to come down.
So he waits till the sun comes up and he goes to knock on their door and he sees
a bloody shoulder blocking the door and he goes to push it open.
And the mother establish 129 times.
And he bends down here ranger to seeing violence.
He bends down to check her and the dog starts barking.
He hears noise and he picks up, he sees a butcher knife, bloody butcher,
and I'm sitting on a, on a, a box and he picks it up and he screams in Spanish.
Anyone here,
he then walks into the other room and he sees the grandmother slumped over
in her wheelchair and he freaks out.
He goes, he's about to call the police. And he says, wait a second. I'm a legal,
they'll never believe me. And can you imagine this on a cocaine bender? Oh,
so he leaves the trailer. He runs back to his throws,
the knife and the grass takes off his bloody clothes off.
His clothes are bloody because he picked up the mother and to check or pulse
takes off his clothes, throw them in a garbage bag,
puts them on top of his trailer,
the boyfriend and the daughter slept out that night. All right.
So the mother and the grandmother are dead. The daughter slept out that night.
He embarrassed or with me because this will,
this is like worth waiting for he,
the police show up a couple of hours later because the boyfriend has sent by the
daughter. Daughter says I have a weird feeling about my mother and grandmother.
Can you go check on them and get my work clothes? Because she worked at subway,
the sandwich shop.
So the boyfriend of the daughter discovers the dead bodies calls 9 1 1,
the police come, they come next door to Clemente's trailer and say,
did you hear anything last night? You know anything about this? He says, no,
he's freaked out.
He then goes to a friend's house and tells his friend what happened. He said,
I'm just going to go back and tell the cops what happened. This is America,
right? Oh. And the friend says, you don't know America.
You need to get the out of town. And he says, nah, I'm going back.
I'm going to tell them. He goes back, walks over there and says,
tells them exactly what happened. Then they put them in handcuffs.
And then I sit them down and they say, listen, we know how you Latin guys are,
you wanted sex, right them, right? He says,
are you out of your mind? No,
I had nothing to do with this PS long story short,
he gets tried convicted and put on death row in
Florida crime scene analysts sat on their hands and knees for
days in the stinking,
Florida heat and scraping blood swabs in the trailer. Okay.
151 blood swabs. And what they're swabbing for is not the victim's blood.
They know it's the victim's blood. This woman has been butchered 129 times.
The crime scene analyst in his case testified that we were swabbing for evidence
of who the perpetrator was because in a knife fight,
the perpetrator often gets nicked and cut,
especially when you're stabbing someone that many times.
So when the innocence project got the case, they said, well,
what were the results of that blood test? You know,
how many drops of blood they tested, not a single drop of blood.
They never tested a single drop of blood because they thought that he was
guilty. We had the blood tested and right in the,
within inches of the mother's body,
in an abattoir room where the state argued the killer cleaned up is
the daughter's blood, a trail of the daughter's blood, going to the bathroom.
And then the mother's blood on the outside of the daughters. All right.
We did a, just a minimal investigation into the daughter.
And it turns out that she had a history of
crazy violence.
She had a condition called intermittent explosive disorder
where you would snap and just go off the rails.
It's a condition, it's a condition, a psychiatric condition.
We look at her medical file.
When she's diagnosed with intermittent explosive disorder, they,
they put four points, restraints. That's your arms and legs.
And there's in the doctor's notes a few years before this happened,
where she says to her mother, I'm going to kill you. If I ever get out of here,
I'll kill all of you.
Then we find out that she is confessed all over town.
We had people coming in all over for the place,
testifying affidavits. He said,
I killed my mother and my grandmother I'll do it to you.
And I got her on the witness. So watch this. The state's still retries him.
His conviction gets overturned. The Florida Supreme court throws it out,
says that he is obviously,
there's obviously a real problem here in the state. Instead of saying,
you know what? We screwed up here. They doubled down.
And it happens in all of our cases. Very rare, not all of them.
Most of them where the state comes up with new theory. And they said, well,
that must have been old blood from her cutting herself.
And they had no explanation for why her mother's blood is mixed with her blood
in her bedroom. Why her mother's blood is outside of her window.
I demanded proof there.
And there was in controvertible proof. So watch what happens.
There's a blood swipe on her mother's.
Her mother is struggling to get out of the house and the killer
grass that her and pulled her pants down. And there's a four finger blood swipe.
And I always thought it was weird or three finger blood swipe, excuse me.
And I always thought it was weird that there was only three fingers and blood at
someone trying to grab at her. So when I had her on the stand man,
I said, I got a court order to take pictures of her hands.
Cause I wanted to see if there were scars on her hand and she lifts up her hand.
Yeah. Her pinkie is bent down like this. And I said,
what happened to your pinky? She said,
I cut my finger off when I was 14. Cause I'm a cutter. And I severed my tendon.
That's exactly right. I said,
was your hand like that on the night that your mother and grandmother were
killed? She said, yes. And I looked at the prosecutor and I said,
have you, have you seen enough? They don't quit. I had,
they just want to win. They just want to win. They just want to win.
And he, I I'm,
I'm happy to report that after her examination and then an amazing examination
by my co-counsel Mari Parmer,
which explodes a bunch of other lies. The ex-boyfriend,
the ex-boyfriend's current wife came in and testified that he told her that the
daughter killed her. And that she snuck out of her house that night, his house,
that night climbed out of the window. And then return later in the night,
they dropped the charges in the middle of his retrial.
And I got to walk him out, um, off of death row.
And in Trump's America, they would not,
they put an immigration hold on him.
And it was like out of a movie.
He got walked out of the prison to immigration and there's
like a mountain crowd outside of immigration on,
we still don't know how it happened.
I got him an immigration bond and walked him out of the immigration center that
night. And to Jason's point, I have never,
other than the birth of my kids, marrying my wife,
hitting a home run and little league, I've never had,
I never floated like that. Right. Fighters,
winning world titles that you no better feeling than to restore someone's life.
You hit a home, run a little league. One would be great.
Oh. So it's so hard to hear these stories, man. Cause you just imagine yourself.
Did I get to you on that?
Yeah. Yeah. He's a beautiful guy too, Joe. I mean.
Some guy who comes to America, you know.
And you know, you meet, you know, you get me going, you meet this guy and.
Here's the crazy part I was called.
Oh God, he got crazy.
Sure. I'll tell you what I had to go through to get it.
I'm not patting myself on the back. Watch this I've skipped one retrial.
The first retrial I was in front of a judge,
the same judge that denied him. Post-conviction relief said,
I don't care that the daughter's blood is there. That she confess, I don't care.
Watch this. She denied him. Post-conviction relief.
And she, he then gets his case overturned in the Supreme court.
Her credentials to serve as a judge in a death penalty case had lapsed.
After his case gets reversed.
She files for special dispensation to become a death penalty
judge and says, even though I don't still have my credentials,
I want to be the judge on his case, seeks out his case.
They're seeking the death penalty. And she denied him.
The constitutional protections that the us constitution said that when you death
qualify a jury, if you violate these rules,
the case is going back on appeal. And I would say to her, your honor,
you don't understand we're going to be back here again.
You can't not tell the jury. Don't research the case in the hallway.
They're going to research the case in the hallway. And she was,
she wanted to kill him. And at one point I stood up and I said,
I'll tell you something. I had to go at her so hard.
I find out that she was the judge and the Trayvon Martin case whose husband
represented George Zimmerman and wouldn't recuse herself.
So all of a sudden the papers start picking up that I'm clashing with her in
courts. And I,
one point had such a run in with her that I sat down and Clemente was crying.
And I said, I'm sorry.
I thought he was going to fire me because I went at it with her so hard.
And I said, I said, I understand. And he put his arm on me and he
she's going to kill me. He said, please keep doing
this. So I kept, I just kept going at her.
And she finally had to declare a mistrial
because a juror came in and said that they were all researching the case in the
hallway.
And that they thought that he was listening to music because he was listening to
the translation on the headphones. So to get these exonerations,
it is such a grueling flight. And if you meet Clemente,
he is the most gentle kind human being and is
still an immigration limbo. And to tell you what a great man, this guy is,
I'm in there in Florida, like fighting.
Like I'm thinking there's no way I'm going to get him off.
And he's calling me going, listen, when we get them out, I'm going to get,
we'll get them up in an apartment and we'll pay for this and pay for that.
I thought he was crazy. I said, this guy has no clue.
And I'm up against and to, you know, um, I'm such a,
so in his debt and I, I I'm. So in awe of him, even though he's my friend,
that to this day,
he and I have jointly supported Clemente financially,
but he pays for his room and board and to be able to be in a position to help
these guys and just help them start a life again. And you know,
this guy still believes in America after all that's happened to him,
he still believes it's the best place to be.
What happens to a judge like that? How does a judge not go to jail?
How, how does someone, I mean, how does someone get away with that
mean she's violating the law and, and clearly he's innocent, right?
So she's trying to kill a man who's innocent. I know the.
Judge that took over the case,
she had to recuse herself in a fit of embarrassment.
And the judge that took over the case was such a beautiful guy.
His name is judge Galluzzo and all he did was uphold the law.
And he, the prosecutors would come in and try to get rid of jurors that said,
I believe that, you know,
I'll listen to the facts and I will only get rid of,
you know, I, I will consider life instead of death.
And he was just so PR and you know, they have immunity is the short answer.
These judges and prosecutors, one of the many flaws of our system, right? Jason,
is that they all have immunity. So.
What about these cops? When you're talking about the cop,
beat the gun in the confession, how does a cop like that?
Not go to jail? How does, if you know that, what, where is that cop now?
One of them got promoted. Um, one of them got promoted.
One of them got, um.
This is a cop, know that the kid was innocent and that they did this.
Many times. They do Joe. And you know,
we can't say make a blanket statement that they all do.
And none of us believe that all of them are bad,
but there are a lot of really bad actors throughout the system.
And they don't face repercussions. And as a result of that,
and it's so important for people to know this,
I talk about it on my podcast all the time.
And Clemente's episode is so wonderful because in, in that episode,
you really feel his humanity. He still has a great sense of humor.
He still has a joy of life and all the exonerees I find have this sort of
incredible. I can only describe it as grace,
right after literally being to hell like death row in Florida,
it doesn't get closer to hell than that. Right.
And he was there for 14 years and he talks about on the.
Pilot, he was on death row for 14.
Years. Yeah. Listen, there's a lot, a lot of worse than that too. You know,
don't get me started on Anthony at Panovich, which is a current case in Ohio.
You'll your head will explode. We got him.
Off after he, he had, it was actually 10 of the 14 years.
He was on Florida's death row.
The other four years were in jails not to be technical, but yeah,
he was on death row.
Right now. But he he's funny, Joe.
Cause we had to inject a little humor into this. Right? So in, in,
on the podcast, I'm wrongful conviction. He talks about how,
when he went to prison, he didn't speak English. And he figured he,
he remembered this Josh and he said he needed to learn how to speak English.
I figured I'm never going to get out of here if I can't, you know,
help in my own defense. So he asked the guard for a Bible and the,
by the guard said, there's no, no Bible to this. He goes, this is hell,
there's no Bibles here. So he gave him instead a letter of a book,
a penthouse letters like porn. He gave him porn. And so Clemente says, he,
he read this thing 17 times and he says the 17th time,
he finally got a hard on it. He says, but not because of the board,
because I realized I could speak English. Right.
And when you hear him say this and you just, you want to hug the.
He's such a good and decent guy.
And he just loves life and he appreciates everything.
But imagine that it took Josh Dubin, right?
One of the great lawyers in our country. Yeah. That's that's uh.
Right after I, that was that's me on the right. That was right.
That was the moment. That was the moment that he got exonerated. Wow.
And my co-counsel Lindsay boney and Dylan,
black Southern gentlemen who this case changed their lives.
And that's Mari Parmer, who I mentioned before. And when and where is he now?
He's so listen to this. How about this?
He would go into court when he was that guy and the white,
and he would throw a fit. I'm innocent.
Who the are you to do this to me early in his court appearances.
When I knew him, he was very docile.
So he acted exactly how I would expect someone to act,
to watch this three days after he gets out. I always told him,
I'm going to get you outta here in jail. I would say,
and I'm going to take you to the beach and we're going to have a beer.
And I would say to Jason, um,
now I'm starting to think that I'm not going to be able to live up to it.
And I get a call like two days after he's out, we're in a hotel.
And I said, you know,
he got located at this place called the sunny center in Tampa.
It's this property where they have like efficiency, apartments for death,
rogues, honorees. And Jason goes to me, that's my place. I bought the property.
I didn't even know it. I.
Mean, he's like this, guy's like Robin hood.
There's a gentleman on the beach in Miami and shorty,
like literally from death row to the front row. Right. It's incredible.
And I actually, it's funny joke, as you mentioned,
the music business before I actually had that experience about a year ago,
this is off topic, but I can't help saying this is on my mind. Um,
about a year ago I was visiting an innocent guy. Well, no,
a year and a half ago now. Cause it was early. Uh, late January.
I was visiting an innocent guy on death row in Texas named Rob Wil. And um,
I left there and flew to LA. Uh, that was on a Monday.
I was down there and then, um,
flew to LA and ended up going to the Grammy's on Sunday and ended up, you know,
moving around some seats, whatever, and sitting in the front row.
And I had that feeling. I was like, holy, what a week?
I literally went from death row to the front row. It's a strange life I leave.
It's it's a double life, but it's, you know, it's, it really is.
It gives a lot of meaning to, to our days, you know,